Add multi-node setup instructions for training perf Dockers (#5449)
RadeonOpenCompute/ROCm: docs/how-to/rocm-for-ai/system-setup/multi-node-setup.rst

accelerators containing ROCm-capable deep learning frameworks and essential
software components. These Docker images can run and leverage multiple nodes if
they are available. This page describes how to enable the multi-node training
of AI workloads on AMD Instinct accelerators.

Prerequisites
=============

Before starting, ensure your environment meets the following requirements:

* **Multi-node networking**: your cluster should have a configured multi-node network. For setup
  instructions, see the `Multi-node network configuration for AMD Instinct
  accelerators
  <https://instinct.docs.amd.com/projects/gpu-cluster-networking/en/latest/how-to/multi-node-config.html>`__
  guide in the Instinct documentation.

* **ROCm Docker container** to simplify environment setup for AI workloads. See the following resources to get started:

  * :doc:`Training a model with Megatron-LM and ROCm <../training/benchmark-docker/megatron-lm>`

  * :doc:`Training a model with PyTorch and ROCm <../training/benchmark-docker/pytorch-training>`

  * :doc:`Training a model with JAX MaxText and ROCm <../training/benchmark-docker/jax-maxtext>`

> * Slurm workload manager to run the :ref:`provided examples <multi-node-setup-training-examples>`.

Reviewer: Bold Slurm workload manager for consistency with the rest of the list.

Author: just removed bolding

   export NODE_RANK="${NODE_RANK:-<node_rank>}"

Network interface
-----------------

Update the network interface in the script to match your system's network interface. To
find your network interface, run the following (outside of any Docker container):

.. code-block:: bash

   ip a

Look for an active interface (status "UP") with an IP address in the same subnet as
your other nodes. Then, update the following variable in the script, for
example:

.. code-block:: bash

   export NCCL_SOCKET_IFNAME=ens50f0np0

This variable specifies which network interface to use for inter-node communication.
Setting this variable to the incorrect interface can result in communication failures
or significantly reduced performance.

.. tip::

  This command sets ``NCCL_SOCKET_IFNAME``'s value to the last RDMA interface.

  .. code-block:: bash

     export NCCL_SOCKET_IFNAME=$(rdma link show | awk '{print $NF}' | sort | tail -n1)

RDMA/IB interface
-----------------

Set the RDMA interfaces to be used for communication. NICs can come from different vendors and the names of the RDMA interface can be different. To get the list of all the RDMA/IB devices, run:

.. code-block:: bash

   ibv_devices

> The command below gets the list of all RDMA/IB  devices and puts them in the
> comma separated form. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command below gets the list of all RDMA/IB devices and puts them in a
comma-separated format. If
```

   export NCCL_IB_HCA=rdma0,rdma1,rdma2,rdma3,rdma4,rdma5,rdma6,rdma7
   # If using Mellanox NIC
   # export NCCL_IB_HCA=mlx5_0,mlx5_1,mlx5_2,mlx5_3,mlx5_4,mlx5_5,mlx5_8,mlx5_9

.. tip::

  Alternatively, if you want to choose the RDMA interface automatically, you
  can use the following. This command will sort the RDMA interfaces and then
  select the first eight RDMA interfaces.

  .. code-block:: bash

     export NCCL_IB_HCA=$(ibv_devices | awk 'NR>2 {print $1}' | sort | head -n 8 | paste -sd,)

Global ID index
---------------

Update the global ID index if you're using RoCE.

.. code-block:: bash

   export NCCL_IB_GID_INDEX=3

.. _multi-node-setup-training-examples:

Multi-node training examples
============================

The following examples use the Slurm workload manager to launch jobs on
multiple nodes. To run these scripts as-is, you must have a Slurm environment
configured. The scripts are designed to work with both Broadcom Thor 2 and
Mellanox NICs by automatically installing the required libraries and setting
the necessary environment variables. For systems with Broadcom NICs, the
scripts assume the host's RoCE library is located in the ``/opt`` directory.

> The following benchmarking examples demonstrate training a Llama 3 8B model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following benchmarking examples demonstrate the training of a Llama 3 8B model
```

across multiple 8-GPU nodes, using FSDP for intra-node parallelism and DP for
inter-node parallelism.

.. _rocm-for-ai-multi-node-setup-jax-train-example:

JAX MaxText
-----------

> 1. Download the desired multi-node benchmarking script from `<https://github.com/ROCm/maxtext/tree/main/benchmarks/gpu-rocm>`__.

Reviewer: Link is a 404.

      git clone https://github.com/ROCm/MAD
      cd scripts/jax-maxtext/gpu-rocm

2. Run the benchmark for multi-node training.

   .. code-block:: shell

      sbatch -N <num_nodes> llama3_8b_multinode.sh

.. _rocm-for-ai-multi-node-setup-pyt-train-example:

PyTorch training
----------------

.. note::

   The ROCm PyTorch Training Docker image now focuses on :doc:`Training a model
   with Primus and PyTorch <../training/benchmark-docker/primus-pytorch>`. The
   following example refers to the legacy workflow :ref:`Training a
   model with PyTorch <amd-pytorch-training-multinode-examples>`.

1. Download the ``run_multinode_train.sh`` benchmarking script from `<https://github.com/ROCm/MAD/tree/develop/scripts/pytorch_train>`__.

   .. code-block:: shell

      wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ROCm/MAD/refs/heads/develop/scripts/pytorch_train/run_multinode_train.sh

   Or clone the `<https://github.com/ROCm/MAD>`__ repository.

   .. code-block:: shell

      git clone https://github.com/ROCm/MAD
      cd scripts/pytorch_train

2. Run the benchmark for multi-node training.

   .. code-block:: shell

      sbatch -N <num_nodes> run_multinode_train.sh

.. seealso::

>    See :ref:`Training a model with PyTorch <amd-megatron-lm-multi-node-examples>` for more examples and information.

Reviewer: This link goes to the Megatron example tho?
